Available Satellite Data for top 10  Remote Sensing Applications: Society and Environment


(1)COVID-19 and its impact on environment: Improved pollution levels during the lockdown period – A case from Dhaka City, BD or BD
Data: Sentinel 5P- ESA

(2)Monitoring Land Cover Changes in the Tropical High Forests using Random Forest ML Algorithm (SAR & Multi-Spectral Mixed data) 
Data: MODIS-NASA, Sentinel 1->SAR-ESA


(3)"Performance of different machine learning algorithms on satellite image classification in rural and urban setup: A case study of Dhaka"
Data: MODIS-NASA

(4)"Determining soil moisture content using passive sensors from space"
Data: Modis, NOAA-> NASA

->it explains Earth’s water cycle, weather forecasting, drought, and floods

(5) "Quantifying crop conditions with Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI)"
Data:MODIS-NASA

->The global food supply is being monitored with satellite imagery and the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI).
 Near-infrared radiation is being used to detect healthy vegetation in agriculture.
Healthy vegetation reflects green light and absorbs red and blue light.
The green light that our eyes see is chlorophyll created by plants during photosynthesis.
Chlorophyll will reflect more light in the green and near-infrared spectrum compared to other wavelengths.
This is why near-infrared radiation in combination with NDVI is 
one of the primary remote sensing applications in agriculture and the environment.

(6)"Observing population growth in urban areas using land use change"
Data: Modis-NASA, Sentinel 1-ESA


(7)"Measuring the rise of sea levels using Satellite Data"
Data: NOAA,NASA

(8) "Comparing climatic factors from past to present"
Data: NASA
->understanding the state of our climate has immeasurable importance.
NASA is mapping different climate factors on a monthly basis to see 
how much these variables change in Global Time-Series Climate Maps. Through this lens, 
climate variables like carbon monoxide, chlorophyll, 
and aerosol size are being mapped as a function of time.
 Remote sensing satellites include MODIS, CERES, AMSR-E, TRMM, and MOPITT. 
Never in our history have we understood Earth’s climate as we do today.


(9)"Tracking hazards for better response and recovery"

Data: NOAA,NASA

->There’s been a clear upward trend in the number of disasters over the years.
 This means better preparedness for mitigation as well as response and recovery. 
The integration of Earth observation data and GIS in hazard 
situations has become the main tool in disaster management. Remote sensing applications 
for hazards include assessing the extent of damage and assisting dispatch.

(10) "Ocean Condition Monitoring using Satellite Data"
Data: NOAA,MODIS-> NASA

------------------------->

Near Real Time Monitoring:

(*) "Natural Disasters Alert and Mapping with RS Data"
Data: NASA, ESA

->Flood, Volcanos,Strom, landslides,Earth Quack,Wildfires,Disease Outbreaks,....


(*)Space Weather Prediction Center & Monitoring
Data: NOAA, NASA

(*)"Near Real time Hurricanes and Tropical Cyclones Analysis & Prediction"

Data: NOAA, NASA
------------>





